# 🕸️wg-mesh

A mesh network configurator based on [Wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com/).

## 📚Quick Start

`wg-mesh` configurator only works on Linux. Clone this project and run `thirdpary.py` to install the necessary dependencies. 
Note that `thirdpart.py` only works on Ubuntu and other Debian-based systems, try to port it if you are running on other systems.

```
python3 thirdpary.py
```

See `example.py` for the example configuration. In `example.py`, it configures two router nodes `bj` and `hk`, and a few clients. `wg-mesh` is based on Wireguard to build the P2P tunnel. So it needs to read and manage the Wireguard credentials. At the first time, you need to generate keys for all hosts. Run the following to generate keys which will be saved to the `keys` directory:

```
./exmaple.py genkey all
```

To set up the mesh network in the real environment, you have to **sync the keys generated before** to all hosts. Then run the following on the corresponding host:

```
./example.py up HOST_NAME
```

For the non-Linux client which cannot be configured by this script, it can use the standard Wrieguard clients with the configuration generated by:

```
./example.py gen-client-conf HOST_NAME
```

## 🤡Mock Network

Debugging the network configuration in the real environment is inconvenient. Thus, `wg-mesh` provides a way to generate a local mock network based on [network namespaces](https://blog.scottlowe.org/2013/09/04/introducing-linux-network-namespaces/):

```
./exmaple.py mock
```

You can explore it by using `sudo ip netns HOST_NAME CMD` to run commands in the mock network. For example, you can ping the `bj` host, which IP is `10.56.1.1` in the example configuration, from the `hk` host:

```
sudo ip netns hk ping 10.56.1.1
```

## 🧑‍💻Development

I track some TODO-s and thoughts in [wiki](https://github.com/louchenyao/wg-mesh/wiki).
